
# owadio
#### Video Demo: (https://youtu.be/4kqnvZjhEHE)
#### Description: an app for ios that tracks the number of days left in one's national service journey. 

owadio is an app made for ios 16 and later for iphone and ipad. It is coded using swift and swiftui on xcode. The main function of this app is to track the number of days remaining during a user's national service. In Singapore, all men aged above 18 are required to enlist in mandatory national service for 2 years. Since this journey is shared across many, and is a common experience, i made this app to help users keep track of their service period and help them look forward to the end of their service journey and their next chapter of life.

The main function of this app is the countdown. When users first open the app, they are prompted to input their enlistment and end of service dates. The UserForm view makes use of a simple navigation view combined with a date picker to allow users to select specific dates with a pop up calendar. After the dates are selected, the dates are stored in bindings to be used in other views. The form rejects any inputs where the enlistment date is later than the end of service date.

After the user submits the form, they are redirected to the Homepage view, where they can see their progress through the CountdownProgress view. The CountdownProgress view is comprised of a circular progress bar and the percentage completion of their service. It also displays the exact number of days left by calculating it using the date inputs the user provided. The percentage completion is also computed using the bindings that have been passed to the CountdownProgress view.

The CountdownProgress view is displayed on the Homepage view, which includes a tabView to allow users to switch between different tabs, namely the Homepage tab, settings tab and the calendar tab.

The Settings tab contains the settings view, which allows users to change their enlistment dates and their end of service dates, in case users make any mistakes during the initial setup, or they have their service periods extended or shortened, giving them the flexibility to choose. It makes use of a datepicker, and any changes here updates the respective bindings for the enlistment date and end of service dates, which are then reflected globally. This allows changes to be updated immediately throughout the whole app.

The calendar tab contains the CalendarView, which is a calendar widget with basic reminder functionality. The calendar highlights the enlistment and end of service dates using the bindings from the user form, giving the user a more concrete visualisation of how far they have come. It uses a datepicker to display a calendar. Once the user selects a date, they can see the reminders they have for that day. If there are no reminders, it will display that. The user can add reminders by selecting the text box, typing something and clicking the plus button. The reminder will then be added on the date, and the user will be able to see it. This is done through saving the reminder string as a private var. The private function addReminder checks if the date has any active reminders. If it does, it appends the new reminder to the previous reminder. If it doesn't, it creates a new reminder text. The function deleteReminder checks if there are any reminders associated with the selected date in the reminders dictionary. If there are reminders, it creates a copy of the reminders array for the selected date under updatedReminders var. Next, the offsets parameter tracks the indices of the reminders that are to be deleted. When a user swipes to delete the reminder, it removes the reminder at the specified offsets. After deletion, it updates the reminders dictionary for the selected date. If there are no more reminders, it will reflect that in the UI.
Next, the formattedDate function converts a date object into a string that is readable for users. It uses the DateFormatter function provided by apple to convert the date into a readable string.
These functions allow the calendar view to be used without any hitch and is integrated into the countdown feature as well, ensuring a streamlined process for the user. 
Overall, these functions combined enable the user to keep track of their enlistment journey and look forward to their next chapter in life.
